---
layout: post
title: 'fixing ERROR ITMS-90725: "SDK Version Issue: iOS app updates submitted to the App Store will need to be built with the iOS 11.0 SDK or later'
tags: [fix]
---
check [PR301](https://github.com/MobiVM/robovm/pull/301) for fix.  
[Kees van Dieren asked](https://gitter.im/MobiVM/robovm?at=5b11459652e35117cdfbfe95) for solution about the issue he has with submitting app to apple store. Issue he had is following:
> ITMS-90725: SDK Version Issue - In July 2018, iOS app updates submitted to the App Store will need to be built with the iOS '11.0' SDK or later, included in Xcode [9.0] or later. Make sure to update Xcode for future app deliveries. After you’ve corrected the issues, you can use Xcode or Application Loader to upload a new binary to iTunes Connect.

After checking list of possible source of problems following poped up:
> $ otool -l IosEsLauncher | grep -A 4 LC_VERSION_MIN_IPHONEOS  
      cmd LC_VERSION_MIN_IPHONEOS  
  cmdsize 16  
  version 8.0  
      sdk n/a  
Load command 10  

`sdk n/a` -- come-on I had it with [home made SDK on windows/linux]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-01-30-linux-windows-not-a-bug-error-in-compatibility-flow %}) and it should not happen on Mac but it there as well.
## Root case  
<!-- more -->
As in case of Linux/Windows it is due `-isysroot /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneOS.sdk` specified as system root to linker.
And as we know from [similar linux/windows case]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-01-30-linux-windows-not-a-bug-error-in-compatibility-flow %}) linker is not able to find out SDK version as it tryies to extract it from sysroot path:
```c
// if -sdk_version not on command line, infer from -syslibroot
if ( (fSDKVersion == 0) && (fSDKPaths.size() > 0) ) {
    const char* sdkPath = fSDKPaths.front();
    const char* end = &sdkPath[strlen(sdkPath)-1];
    while ( !isdigit(*end) && (end > sdkPath) )
        --end;
    const char* start = end-1;
    while ( (isdigit(*start) || (*start == '.')) && (start > sdkPath))
        --start;
    char sdkVersionStr[32];
    int len = end-start+1;
    if ( len > 2 ) {
        strlcpy(sdkVersionStr, start+1, len);
        fSDKVersion = parseVersionNumber32(sdkVersionStr);
    }
}
```

## Why iPhoneOS.sdk is used while iPhoneOS11.4.sdk is available
> ls -l /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/  
iPhoneOS.sdk  
iPhoneOS11.4.sdk -> iPhoneOS.sdk  

So these are actually the same. E.g. content is same. If SDK is not specified by `iosSdkVersion` in `robovm.xml` IOSTarget will sort SDK and pick recent ones. In this case `iPhoneOS11.4.sdk` are `iPhoneOS.sdk` exactly same and order which will go out from sorting is not defined (as for sorter they are equal)

## This second solution
Till this PR is not accepted or if you stick to older RoboVM version the solution would be to rid off `iPhoneOS.sdk`:  
* remove iPhoneOS11.4.sdk
* rename iPhoneOS.sdk to iPhoneOS11.4.sdk

## Solution
The only right solution is to provide linker with parameter that specifies SDK verison: `-sdk_version 11.4`

## Sub-solutions
Also changes were done to change sorting to look into SDK root path and if versions are equal make SDK located in `iPhoneOS.sdk` lower priority


All fixes are in [PR301](https://github.com/MobiVM/robovm/pull/301)
